---
title: Psalms 19
type: Bible
tags:
 - bible/verse
 - bible/book/Psalms
 - verse
Chapter: Chapter19
Book: Psalms
Aliases: [Psalms 19]
previous: ['Ps 18']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 20']
---
# Psalms 19

***


###### 1 
The heavens declare the glory of God; the skies proclaim the work of his hands. 

###### 2 
Day after day they pour forth speech; night after night they reveal knowledge. 

###### 3 
They have no speech, they use no words; no sound is heard from them. 

###### 4 
Yet their voice goes out into all the earth, their words to the ends of the world. In the heavens God has pitched a tent for the sun. 

###### 5 
It is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, like a champion rejoicing to run his course. 

###### 6 
It rises at one end of the heavens and makes its circuit to the other; nothing is deprived of its warmth. 

###### 7 
The law of the LORD is perfect, refreshing the soul. The statutes of the LORD are trustworthy, making wise the simple. 

###### 8 
The precepts of the LORD are right, giving joy to the heart. The commands of the LORD are radiant, giving light to the eyes. 

###### 9 
The fear of the LORD is pure, enduring forever. The decrees of the LORD are firm, and all of them are righteous. 

###### 10 
They are more precious than gold, than much pure gold; they are sweeter than honey, than honey from the honeycomb. 

###### 11 
By them your servant is warned; in keeping them there is great reward. 

###### 12 
But who can discern their own errors? Forgive my hidden faults. 

###### 13 
Keep your servant also from willful sins; may they not rule over me. Then I will be blameless, innocent of great transgression. 

###### 14 
May these words of my mouth and this meditation of my heart be pleasing in your sight, LORD, my Rock and my Redeemer. 
