---
title: Psalms 91
type: Bible
tags:
 - bible/verse
 - bible/book/Psalms
 - verse
Chapter: Chapter91
Book: Psalms
Aliases: [Psalms 91]
previous: ['Ps 90']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 92']
---
# Psalms 91

***


###### 1 
Whoever dwells in the shelter of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty. 

###### 2 
I will say of the LORD, "He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust." 

###### 3 
Surely he will save you from the fowler's snare and from the deadly pestilence. 

###### 4 
He will cover you with his feathers, and under his wings you will find refuge; his faithfulness will be your shield and rampart. 

###### 5 
You will not fear the terror of night, nor the arrow that flies by day, 

###### 6 
nor the pestilence that stalks in the darkness, nor the plague that destroys at midday. 

###### 7 
A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you. 

###### 8 
You will only observe with your eyes and see the punishment of the wicked. 

###### 9 
If you say, "The LORD is my refuge," and you make the Most High your dwelling, 

###### 10 
no harm will overtake you, no disaster will come near your tent. 

###### 11 
For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways; 

###### 12 
they will lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. 

###### 13 
You will tread on the lion and the cobra; you will trample the great lion and the serpent. 

###### 14 
"Because he loves me," says the LORD, "I will rescue him; I will protect him, for he acknowledges my name. 

###### 15 
He will call on me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honor him. 

###### 16 
With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation." 
