---
title: Psalms 116
type: Bible
tags:
 - bible/verse
 - bible/book/Psalms
 - verse
Chapter: Chapter116
Book: Psalms
Aliases: [Psalms 116]
previous: ['Ps 115']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 117']
---
# Psalms 116

***


###### 1 
I love the LORD, for he heard my voice; he heard my cry for mercy. 

###### 2 
Because he turned his ear to me, I will call on him as long as I live. 

###### 3 
The cords of death entangled me, the anguish of the grave came over me; I was overcome by distress and sorrow. 

###### 4 
Then I called on the name of the LORD: "LORD, save me!" 

###### 5 
The LORD is gracious and righteous; our God is full of compassion. 

###### 6 
The LORD protects the unwary; when I was brought low, he saved me. 

###### 7 
Return to your rest, my soul, for the LORD has been good to you. 

###### 8 
For you, LORD, have delivered me from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling, 

###### 9 
that I may walk before the LORD in the land of the living. 

###### 10 
I trusted in the LORD when I said, "I am greatly afflicted"; 

###### 11 
in my alarm I said, "Everyone is a liar." 

###### 12 
What shall I return to the LORD for all his goodness to me? 

###### 13 
I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the LORD. 

###### 14 
I will fulfill my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people. 

###### 15 
Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his faithful servants. 

###### 16 
Truly I am your servant, LORD; I serve you just as my mother did; you have freed me from my chains. 

###### 17 
I will sacrifice a thank offering to you and call on the name of the LORD. 

###### 18 
I will fulfill my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people, 

###### 19 
in the courts of the house of the LORD-- in your midst, Jerusalem. Praise the LORD. 
