---
title: Psalms 144
type: Bible
tags:
 - bible/verse
 - bible/book/Psalms
 - verse
Chapter: Chapter144
Book: Psalms
Aliases: [Psalms 144]
previous: ['Ps 143']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 145']
---
# Psalms 144

***


###### 1 
Praise be to the LORD my Rock, who trains my hands for war, my fingers for battle. 

###### 2 
He is my loving God and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield, in whom I take refuge, who subdues peoples under me. 

###### 3 
LORD, what are human beings that you care for them, mere mortals that you think of them? 

###### 4 
They are like a breath; their days are like a fleeting shadow. 

###### 5 
Part your heavens, LORD, and come down; touch the mountains, so that they smoke. 

###### 6 
Send forth lightning and scatter the enemy; shoot your arrows and rout them. 

###### 7 
Reach down your hand from on high; deliver me and rescue me from the mighty waters, from the hands of foreigners 

###### 8 
whose mouths are full of lies, whose right hands are deceitful. 

###### 9 
I will sing a new song to you, my God; on the ten-stringed lyre I will make music to you, 

###### 10 
to the One who gives victory to kings, who delivers his servant David. From the deadly sword <sup class="versenum mid-line">11</sup>deliver me; rescue me from the hands of foreigners whose mouths are full of lies, whose right hands are deceitful. 

###### 12 
Then our sons in their youth will be like well-nurtured plants, and our daughters will be like pillars carved to adorn a palace. 

###### 13 
Our barns will be filled with every kind of provision. Our sheep will increase by thousands, by tens of thousands in our fields; 

###### 14 
our oxen will draw heavy loads. There will be no breaching of walls, no going into captivity, no cry of distress in our streets. 

###### 15 
Blessed is the people of whom this is true; blessed is the people whose God is the LORD. 
