---
title: Psalms 145
type: Bible
tags:
 - bible/verse
 - bible/book/Psalms
 - verse
Chapter: Chapter145
Book: Psalms
Aliases: [Psalms 145]
previous: ['Ps 144']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 146']
---
# Psalms 145

***


###### 1 
I will exalt you, my God the King; I will praise your name for ever and ever. 

###### 2 
Every day I will praise you and extol your name for ever and ever. 

###### 3 
Great is the LORD and most worthy of praise; his greatness no one can fathom. 

###### 4 
One generation commends your works to another; they tell of your mighty acts. 

###### 5 
They speak of the glorious splendor of your majesty-- and I will meditate on your wonderful works. 

###### 6 
They tell of the power of your awesome works-- and I will proclaim your great deeds. 

###### 7 
They celebrate your abundant goodness and joyfully sing of your righteousness. 

###### 8 
The LORD is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger and rich in love. 

###### 9 
The LORD is good to all; he has compassion on all he has made. 

###### 10 
All your works praise you, LORD; your faithful people extol you. 

###### 11 
They tell of the glory of your kingdom and speak of your might, 

###### 12 
so that all people may know of your mighty acts and the glorious splendor of your kingdom. 

###### 13 
Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures through all generations. The LORD is trustworthy in all he promises and faithful in all he does. 

###### 14 
The LORD upholds all who fall and lifts up all who are bowed down. 

###### 15 
The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food at the proper time. 

###### 16 
You open your hand and satisfy the desires of every living thing. 

###### 17 
The LORD is righteous in all his ways and faithful in all he does. 

###### 18 
The LORD is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. 

###### 19 
He fulfills the desires of those who fear him; he hears their cry and saves them. 

###### 20 
The LORD watches over all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy. 

###### 21 
My mouth will speak in praise of the LORD. Let every creature praise his holy name for ever and ever. 
