---
title: Psalms 34
type: Bible
tags:
 - bible/verse
 - bible/book/Psalms
 - verse
Chapter: Chapter34
Book: Psalms
Aliases: [Psalms 34]
previous: ['Ps 33']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 35']
---
# Psalms 34

***


###### 1 
I will extol the LORD at all times; his praise will always be on my lips. 

###### 2 
I will glory in the LORD; let the afflicted hear and rejoice. 

###### 3 
Glorify the LORD with me; let us exalt his name together. 

###### 4 
I sought the LORD, and he answered me; he delivered me from all my fears. 

###### 5 
Those who look to him are radiant; their faces are never covered with shame. 

###### 6 
This poor man called, and the LORD heard him; he saved him out of all his troubles. 

###### 7 
The angel of the LORD encamps around those who fear him, and he delivers them. 

###### 8 
Taste and see that the LORD is good; blessed is the one who takes refuge in him. 

###### 9 
Fear the LORD, you his holy people, for those who fear him lack nothing. 

###### 10 
The lions may grow weak and hungry, but those who seek the LORD lack no good thing. 

###### 11 
Come, my children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the LORD. 

###### 12 
Whoever of you loves life and desires to see many good days, 

###### 13 
keep your tongue from evil and your lips from telling lies. 

###### 14 
Turn from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it. 

###### 15 
The eyes of the LORD are on the righteous, and his ears are attentive to their cry; 

###### 16 
but the face of the LORD is against those who do evil, to blot out their name from the earth. 

###### 17 
The righteous cry out, and the LORD hears them; he delivers them from all their troubles. 

###### 18 
The LORD is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. 

###### 19 
The righteous person may have many troubles, but the LORD delivers him from them all; 

###### 20 
he protects all his bones, not one of them will be broken. 

###### 21 
Evil will slay the wicked; the foes of the righteous will be condemned. 

###### 22 
The LORD will rescue his servants; no one who takes refuge in him will be condemned. 
