---
title: Psalms 80
type: Bible
tags:
 - bible/verse
 - bible/book/Psalms
 - verse
Chapter: Chapter80
Book: Psalms
Aliases: [Psalms 80]
previous: ['Ps 79']
up: ['Psalms']
next: ['Ps 81']
---
# Psalms 80

***


###### 1 
Hear us, Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock. You who sit enthroned between the cherubim, shine forth <sup class="versenum mid-line">2</sup>before Ephraim, Benjamin and Manasseh. Awaken your might; come and save us. 

###### 3 
Restore us, O God; make your face shine on us, that we may be saved. 

###### 4 
How long, LORD God Almighty, will your anger smolder against the prayers of your people? 

###### 5 
You have fed them with the bread of tears; you have made them drink tears by the bowlful. 

###### 6 
You have made us an object of derision to our neighbors, and our enemies mock us. 

###### 7 
Restore us, God Almighty; make your face shine on us, that we may be saved. 

###### 8 
You transplanted a vine from Egypt; you drove out the nations and planted it. 

###### 9 
You cleared the ground for it, and it took root and filled the land. 

###### 10 
The mountains were covered with its shade, the mighty cedars with its branches. 

###### 11 
Its branches reached as far as the Sea, its shoots as far as the River. 

###### 12 
Why have you broken down its walls so that all who pass by pick its grapes? 

###### 13 
Boars from the forest ravage it, and insects from the fields feed on it. 

###### 14 
Return to us, God Almighty! Look down from heaven and see! Watch over this vine, 

###### 15 
the root your right hand has planted, the son you have raised up for yourself. 

###### 16 
Your vine is cut down, it is burned with fire; at your rebuke your people perish. 

###### 17 
Let your hand rest on the man at your right hand, the son of man you have raised up for yourself. 

###### 18 
Then we will not turn away from you; revive us, and we will call on your name. 

###### 19 
Restore us, LORD God Almighty; make your face shine on us, that we may be saved. 
