---
title: Envirormental Sci - Week 1

---
# US Environmental Policy 3157

## For each Act/Event, include the following:
1. What is its purpose?
2. Why was it enacted or why did it occur?

## 1963 – Clean Air Act

1. The purpose of this act is to reduce and control air pollution across the country.
2. It was created to protect public health from different types of air pollution that came from many different sources. Toxic and hazardous environmental issues were noted with the passing of this act such as that of acid rain and other environmental issues like damage to the ozone layer in the revisions made in 1970.

## 1964 – Wilderness Act

1. The  Wilderness Act of 1964 retitled some federal land as wilderness areas.  Its purpose was to prevent development on these areas of land.  
2. Low-impact leisure activities on these lands  were opened to the public. By creating large areas undeveloped land it increased soil conservation. This act  was enacted to help  protect the wilderness as a result of the Dust Bowl and other concerns on the impact of developing all of the surrounding land.

## 1965 – Federal Water Pollution Control Act

1. Definition- It is made to set water quality standards. 
2. Effects from the act- They got more money budgeting to make sure our water is safe.
3. Us, the animals, and our environment need water to survive people dumping waste and polluting the waters will kill us and the environmental/animals around it. It was made because the population was growing back then and we use water for so many things. The water needs to be clean water so the had to build a system to clean the water we used, which is now called a water plant and sewage treatments. Other ways are making more dams, preserving all kinds of plantation, and enforcing all laws.

## 1965 – Solid Waste Disposal Act

1. The purpose of the solid waste disposal act was to create a national goal to protect humans and our environment from waste management, as well as reduce the amount of waste generated, in an attempt to reduce landfill usage and ocean pollution.
2. The  solid waste disposal act, which was amended later by the resource conservation and recovery act, was enacted and aimed for the protection of human health, as well as the environment’s, from  dangers of waste disposal.

## 1968 – Wild and Scenic Rivers Act

1. In 1968, Congress passed the Wild and Scenic Rivers act. Lyndon B Johnson signed it into law. 
2. People became concerned that damming, developing free flowing rivers, or diverting the rivers, would diminish the joy that the rivers would bring to future generations.

## 1970 – National Environmental Policy Act

1. When building new establishments that affect the environment the government has to take the environment into consideration. 
2. As the government wanted to build roads, railroads, military complexes, etc. the people wanted to ensure that the nature would be preserved and the environment would be taken into consideration.

## 1970 – 1st Earth Day
1. The purpose of Earth Day was to raise awareness and draw public support for action to address pollution problems. 
2. Earth Day was enacted to force the issues of pollution, such as the contamination of water, air, and land caused by industrialization, onto a national agenda.

## 1970 – Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)

1. The EPA is meant to protect and enforce environmental regulations that are passed by Congress. They work to ensure the safety of humans and other animals by making sure there is clean water air and land.
2. Prior to the creation of the EPA, environmental protection laws and regulations were determined by the specific state. In 1970, the EPA was formed under president Nixon to improve the areas that weren’t necessarily at a place they needed to be due to the lack of consistency with the laws.
## 1972 - Marine Mammal Protection Act

1. The purpose of this act is to protect marine mammal populations from declining as a result of human activities such as hunting and fishing. This act protects all marine mammals including whales, dolphins, porpoises, seals, manatees, sea otters and polar bears within the waters of the U.S. 
2. This act was enacted in response to the great decline of some species of marine mammals from human activities.

## 1972 - Federal Pesticide Act

1. The objective of the Federal Pesticide Act is to ensure that pesticides will not generally cause unreasonable risk to human health or the environment. 
2. The inability to control actual usage of pesticides led to the passage of the Federal Pesticide Act of 1972.

## 1973 - Endangered Species Act

1. What is its purpose? It protects biodiversity, forbidding government and private citizens from taking actions that would destroy threatened and endangered species, or their habitats. It also prohibits trade in products made from threatened and endangered species. 
2. It was enacted to protect and recover species of disappearing forever. The polar bear became the first species listed under the Endangered Species Act as a result of climate change.

## 1974 - Safe Water Drinking Act

 1. The purpose is to  ensure the safety and quality of drinking water, making sure it’s free from harmful contaminants and that it’s safe for consumption. 
 2. The act was enacted to  combat severe water pollution, protect the health from waterborne diseases, and respond to public demand for a cleaner environment.
 3. Leaders and public movements pushed for laws to safeguard natural resources, leading to the creation of SWDA.  The act empowered the EPA to set standards for over 90 contaminants, ensuring safer water for the public.

## 1976 - Toxic Substances Control Act

1. Purpose
	1. Authorize the EPA to issue rules and regulations for industrial chemicals. 
	2. EPA could also ban chemicals that posed risks to human and environmental health such as PCBs, lead, and BPA 
2. Why was it enacted or why did it occur?
	1. Before the act there was no federal law to help regulate these chemicals.
	2. In 1976 there was growing concerns about potential dangers and widespread use of industrial chemicals.
	3. Increasing awareness grew of the risks that could be posed by PCBs, Lead, and BPA
	4. Cancer, reproductive problems,  neurological damage, etc.

## 1977 - Clean Water Act

1. Purpose- reduce water pollution and protect water quality. 
2. Why- Originated in 1972 as federal water pollution control act and was renamed in 1977 to the clean water act.
3. The Cuyahoga river was so polluted with oil and industrial waste that the river caught fire near Cleveland multiple times. Another reason for the act is an oil spill off of the coast of Santa Barbara California moved the public to prompt congress and the president to better safeguard water quality and public health.

## 1977 - Soil and Water Conservation Act

1. The Soil and Water Conservation Act’s purpose is to control floods and protect soil from degrading. It is also used to stop damage of reservoirs.
2. This act was created to enhance, protect, and conserve natural resources and prevent loss of soil from erosion. It was influenced by the Dust Bowl, that damaged farmers’ land.
## 1980 - CERCLA / Superfund - (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act)

1. In the 1980s,  multiple left over military and industrial sites were contaminated with hazardous waste. 
	1. Including the United States and other nations.
2. CERCLA established a federal program to clean up polluted U.S. sites
	1. The EPA established Superfund, a cleanup program, which identifies polluted sites and handled hazardous chemicals to protect groundwater and clean up pollution.